How bootstrapping works
=======================

We start by repeating the idea behind the [copy
method](../copy/DESCRIPTION.md). Start with four variables )denoted here by
*a, b, c, d*) as the initial pool of random variables. Create iteratively
idenical copies of existing variables (or groups of variables) from the pool
such that these copies are independent given another subset of the
variables. The procedure is described by the *copy string*. The independence
and symmetries give several equalities among the entropies of the final set
of variables. These 

> (1) &nbsp; &nbsp; equalities together with <br>
> (2) &nbsp; &nbsp the collection of Shannon inequalities for all variables

have consequences on the 15 entropies of the original four variables.

The final set of random variables also satisfies all entropy inequalities,
not just the the basic Shannon inequalities. Consequently, to the list we
can add

> (3) &nbsp; &nbsp; a collection of known 4-variable inequalities for one,
> two, or more bases

and extract the consequences on this extended set of inequalities.

#### How to do it

As arguments  the perl utility [apply.pl](../utils/apply.pl) accepts the 
description of a copy string, a file containing 4-variable inequalities, and
a series of bases. It creates the MOLP from the Shannon inequalities plus
the 4-variable inequalities applied to all supplied bases. Extracting
consequences can be done by solving the MOLP problem.

    # create the MOLP problem
    utils/apply.pl <copystring> <ineq-file> <base1> <base2> ... vlp/NN.vlp
    # solve the problem
    inner vlp/NN.vlp -o vlp/NN.res > vlp/NN.out
    # and extract 4-variable inequalities not superseded by those in <ineq>
    utils/checkall.pl vlp/NN.res <ineq> > result/NN.new

#### Rules as special case

Rules, as defined by [Dougherty et al](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1104.3602v1),
use one or two 4-variable inequalities, and if they fit into a certain
pattern, then another 4-variable inequality can be generated from them.
Actually, the rule is defined by a copy string and one or two bases. Using
all Shannon inequalities as generated by the copy string, adding the 
first inequality for the first base, the second inequality for the second
base, the generated inequality is (one of) the consequences of this set.

